README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/redfin/patience.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/redfin/patience)
[![License](http://img.shields.io/:license-apache-brightgreen.svg)](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html)

# Patience

## Overview

Patience is a fluent, customizable Java library for waiting on expected conditions.
There are a few interfaces that allow for highly different behaviors at key
sections along with immutable classes to implement the generic behavior that
occurs around those customization points.

## Installation

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.redfin</groupId>
    <artifactId>patience</artifactId>
    <version>0.1.1-beta</version>
</dependency>
```

## Main classes

The initial entry into the library is via a `PatientWait` object.
This is an immutable instance, with a builder for easy and fluent object creation,
 that contains the standard wait configurations.
It is intended to be re-usable.

Once you have created a `PatientWait` instance you start to make a wait call via a couple different methods.
If you supply a filter (via a `Predicate`) you will get a `PatientCompletableFuture`.
By giving a `PatientCompletableFuture` a `Callable<T>`, where the type `T` matches that of the predicate,
 you will get a `PatientFuture`. You can skip the `PatientCompletableFuture` by simply given a `Callable<T>` to
 the `PatientWait` instance in which case you will get a `PatientFuture` that has the default filter applied to it.
The default filter considers any non-null, non-false object a valid result.

You can then extract the value from the `PatientFuture` with the `get` methods.
There are two, one that uses the default timeout (set in the `PatientWait`) or one that takes in a custom timeout.
The `PatientFuture` will then either wait until a valid value is found and return it or throw a `PatientTimeoutException`
if the timeout is reached without having found a valid value. It may return from the call earlier than the full timeout if
an unsuccessful attempt has occurred and the next attempt would not be scheduled until after the timeout has been reached.

## Example usage

First, you would create the `PatientWait` instance.

```java
PatientWait wait = PatientWait.builder()
                              .withInitialDelay(Duration.ofSeconds(1))
                              .withDefaultTimeout(Duration.ofMinutes(2))
                              .withRetryStrategy(PatientRetryStrategies.withFixedDelay(Duration.ofMillis(500)))
                              .withExecutionHandler(PatientExecutionHandlers.simpleHandler())
                              .build();
```

Then you can use that to wait for a condition:

```java
String[] array = {"hello", "1", "a", "b", "c"};
wait.withFilter(str -> null != str && str.length() > 1)
    .from(() -> array[(int)(Math.random() * array.length)])
    .get(Duration.ofMinutes(1));
```

With the settings for the wait, this will make repeated attempts of calculating an index of the array
and checking the String at that index against the filter that is checking for Strings with a length
greater than 1. If one attempt returns a String with a length of 1, then it will wait for 500 milliseconds
and then try again. Once the random index computation calculates 0 it will return the String `hello` and
be done. If it never calculates an index of 0 and the timeout is reached, then a `PatientTimeoutException`
will be thrown.

## Customization points

The two main customization points of the `Patience` library are the `PatientRetryStrategy` and the `PatientExecutionHandler`.
The `PatientRetryStrategy` is where the behavior around making calls to the `Callable` given in the `from` method are configured.
This can include things like how long is waited after an unsuccessful attempt, etc.
The `PatientExecutionHandler` is where the behavior around the extraction of a value from the given `Callable` and the
testing of that value with the given filter `Predicate` is controlled.

Commit message:

Reworking the patient future classes for better type inference behavior

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/redfin/patience.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/redfin/patience)
[![License](http://img.shields.io/:license-apache-brightgreen.svg)](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html)

# Patience

## Overview

Patience is a fluent, customizable Java library for waiting on expected conditions.
There are a few interfaces that allow for highly different behaviors at key
sections along with immutable classes to implement the generic behavior that
occurs around those customization points.

## Installation

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.redfin</groupId>
    <artifactId>patience</artifactId>
    <version>0.2.0-beta</version>
</dependency>
```

## Main classes

The initial entry into the library is via a `PatientWait` object.
This is an immutable instance, with a builder for easy and fluent object creation,
 that contains the standard wait configurations.
It is intended to be re-usable.

Once you have created a `PatientWait` instance you start to make a wait call by supplying a `Callable`
 to the `from` method of the `PatientWait` object instance. This will return a `DefaultPatientFuture`
 instance. Either the `DefaultPatientFuture` or the `FilteredPatientFuture` objects allow you to extract
 the value. Doing so from a `DefaultPatientFuture` object will use a default filter to test the returned
 values that considers any non-null, non-false value to be a valid result. You can use a custom test
 by calling the `withFilter` method on the `DefaultPatientFuture` object which will return a `FilteredPatientFuture`.

You can then extract the value from any `PatientFuture` object via the `get` methods.
There are two, one that uses the default timeout (set in the `PatientWait`) or one that takes in a custom timeout.
The `PatientFuture` will then either wait until a valid value is found and return it or throw a `PatientTimeoutException`
if the timeout is reached without having found a valid value. It may return from the call earlier than the full timeout if
an unsuccessful attempt has occurred and the next attempt would not be scheduled until after the timeout has been reached.

## Example usage

First, you would create the `PatientWait` instance.

```java
PatientWait wait = PatientWait.builder()
                              .withInitialDelay(Duration.ofSeconds(1))
                              .withDefaultTimeout(Duration.ofMinutes(2))
                              .withRetryStrategy(PatientRetryStrategies.withFixedDelay(Duration.ofMillis(500)))
                              .withExecutionHandler(PatientExecutionHandlers.simpleHandler())
                              .build();
```

Then you can use that to wait for a condition:

```java
String[] array = {"hello", "1", "a", "b", "c"};
wait.from(() -> array[(int)(Math.random() * array.length)])
    .withFilter(t -> t.length() > 1)
    .get(Duration.ofMinutes(1));
```

With the settings for the wait, this will make repeated attempts of calculating an index of the array
and checking the String at that index against the filter that is checking for Strings with a length
greater than 1. If one attempt returns a String with a length of 1, then it will wait for 500 milliseconds
and then try again. Once the random index computation calculates 0 it will return the String `hello` and
be done. If it never calculates an index of 0 and the timeout is reached, then a `PatientTimeoutException`
will be thrown.

## Customization points

The two main customization points of the `Patience` library are the `PatientRetryStrategy` and the `PatientExecutionHandler`.
The `PatientRetryStrategy` is where the behavior around making calls to the `Callable` given in the `from` method are configured.
This can include things like how long is waited after an unsuccessful attempt, etc.
The `PatientExecutionHandler` is where the behavior around the extraction of a value from the given `Callable` and the
testing of that value with the given filter `Predicate` is controlled.
